{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Oblique;\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;
\f3\fnil\fcharset77 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red67\green143\blue201;\red11\green12\blue143;
\red11\green16\blue125;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9700\viewh11380\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf2 distributed.net client for Mac OS \cf3 X\cf0 \

\f1\i\b0\fs24 released by Michael Feiri <\cf4 mfeiri@distributed.net\cf0 >, <\cf4 michael@feiri.de\cf0 >
\f2\i0 \
\
 Thank you for downloading the distributed.net client (dnetc) for Mac OS X.\
\
 This document covers information specific to the client for Mac OS X.\
 For non-platform specific information, refer to other enclosed \
 documentation or browse the online FAQ at \cf4 http://www.distributed.net/FAQ\cf0 \
 or \cf4 http://www.distributed.net/docs/\cf0 .\
\

\f0\b     Table of Contents
\f2\b0 \
    1.0  Getting started\
    2.0  Running the client in silent mode\
    3.0  Frequently Asked Questions on Mac OS X\
    4.0  Problems and bugs\
    5.0  Credits and thanks\
\
   \

\f0\b\fs28  1.0  Getting started ------------------------------------------------
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\
    The first step is to download the client and unpack the archive.\
    Presumably, if you are reading this, you have done so. Once \
    that is complete, you may place the dnetc folder anywhere you\
    wish on the hard drive.\
\
    This client is a command line client. To run it, you will need to\
    open a Terminal window using Terminal.app. Navigate to the\
    dnetc folder (you can do this by typing "
\f3\fs20 cd
\f2\fs24 " and then dragging\
    the dnetc folder to the Terminal window, and hitting Return).\
\
    Once there, you can start the client's configuration by typing:\

\f3\fs20         ./dnetc -config
\f2\fs24 \
\
    The "
\f3\fs20 ./
\f2\fs24 " indicates that you are running a command from the\
    current directory. The "
\f3\fs20 -config
\f2\fs24 " is a switch which tells dnetc\
    to start configuration mode. It will do this automatically if you\
    have never configured it before, but using the switch will\
    always start config mode.\
\
    You will be introduced to a text-driven menu with fairly self-\
    explanatory options. Primarily, you will want to configure your\
    distributed.net ID. Again, any of these options can be changed\
    later by starting dnetc with the 
\f3\fs20 -config
\f2\fs24  switch.\
\
    When you are finished, save and quit from the menu system.\
    The client will exit. To begin processing, type:\

\f3\fs20         ./dnetc
\f2\fs24 \
\
    You can then hide Terminal, minimize the window to the Dock,\
    or just leave it there. You can see other command line options\
    for the client by starting it with the 
\f3\fs20 -help
\f2\fs24  switch.\
\
    Additional guides to the various configuration options are\
    available online. \cf4 http://www.distributed.net/docs/\cf0 \
\
\

\f0\b\fs28  2.0  Running the client in silent mode ------------------
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\
    It may be desirable to run the client in the background; that is,\
    to close the Terminal window that it is running in, but have it\
    continue processing.\
\
    To do so, first stop any running instances of the client:\

\f3\fs20         ./dnetc -shutdown
\f2\fs24 \
\
    Then open the configuration menu:\

\f3\fs20         ./dnetc -config
\f2\fs24 \
\
    Select the General Client Options menu, and go to option\
    number 10. Enable this option. Note that if you are running\
    the client in silent mode, you may wish to enable logging,\
    so that you can check its activity. This is option 4 on the main\
    menu. When you are finished, save and quit.\
\
    Finally, start the client using this command:\

\f3\fs20         ./dnetc &
\f2\fs24 \
\
    This will start the now-silent client into the background. You\
    may then close Terminal if you wish.\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28  3.0  Frequently Asked Questions on Mac OS X  ---------
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\
    Q: What are the changes in this version of the client?\
    A: Check the 
\f3\fs20 CHANGES.txt
\f2\fs24  document included in this distribution.\
\
    Q: Where is the (what-used-to-be-) GUI version of the client?\
    A: Any GUI features not included in this client will be released\
        as portable, open source add-on utilities. However, since\
        distributed.net is a volunteer organization, we rely on users\
        to contribute code. Please contact us if you're interested.\
        See also \cf4 http://www.distributed.net/download/addons.html\cf0 \
\
    Q: How do I check if a silent client is running?\
    A: Open a Terminal window and type: 
\f3\fs20 ps -aux | grep dnetc
\f2\fs24 \
        If you see any processes named 
\f3\fs20 ./dnetc
\f2\fs24  then it is running.\
        Alternatively, you can check your logfile to see if it is being\
        updated. (You might type 
\f3\fs20 tail <logfile>
\f2\fs24  where <logfile>\
        is the name of your log file.)\
       \
    Q: How do I quit the client if it is running?\
    A: Just type:  
\f3\fs20 ./dnetc -shutdown
\f2\fs24 \
        The client will report how many clients were found and stopped.\
        If it fails, you can always use the "
\f3\fs20 kill
\f2\fs24 " command to stop it.\
\
    Q: How can I setup the client that it starts up automatically when\
       I boot up my computer?\
    A: There are a few ways to do this. The simplest way is:\
            1. Get Info on dnetc in the Finder.\
            2. Switch to "Open with Application..." and choose Terminal.\
            3. Go to System Preferences and click Login.\
            4. Press the Add button and navigate to dnetc.\
    This approach works great for a single user machine that you\
    do not log out of. For a multi-user approach, there are third party\
    utilities to do this. You can also write a simple shell script to run\
    the client at boot time.\
\
    Q: Okay, I want to use a shell script. How might I do that?\
    A: Obviously, the exact script will vary based on your setup. But\
        it might look something like this. Create a file:\

\f3\fs20         /System/Library/StartupItems/dnetc/dnetc
\f2\fs24 \
        And its contents might look like this:\

\f3\fs20         #!/bin/sh\
        . /etc/rc.common \
\
        # Start up distributed net\
        #\
        if [ "$\{DNETC:=-NO-\}" = "-YES-" ]; then\
            ConsoleMessage "Starting distributed.net client"\
            su yourusernamehere -c  /usr/local/dnetc/dnetc &\
        else\
            ConsoleMessage "distributed.net client disabled"\
        fi\
        # eof
\f2\fs24 \
        And add this line to /etc/hostconfig:\

\f3\fs20         DNETC=-YES-
\f2\fs24 \
         \
    Q: This version of the client seems much slower than XYZ previous\
         version of the client. What gives?\
    A: Probably what you are noticing is that sometime around build\
         464, we made the client "nicer" to other programs; that is, we\
         made it a lower priority process. This was to make sure that it\
         did not interfere with the use of the computer in any way. If you\
         want to experiment with higher priority settings, use these steps\
         to change the priority:\

\f3\fs20         ./dnetc -shutdown
\f2\fs24 \

\f3\fs20         ./dnetc -config\
        Performance related options\
        Priority level 
\f1\i (make your changes here)
\f3\i0 \
        Save and quit\
        ./dnetc
\f2\fs24 \
         But be warned! This may slow down other applications.\
\
    Q: I want to run the client and XYZ simultaneously, but XYZ\
         destroys my crunch rate. What can I do?\
    A: Probably not much. Most of the problems that are suited to\
        distributed computing are heavily CPU-intensive. Remember, dnetc\
        is intended to only use up idle time on your computer. Ideally, your\
        use of the computer should not be affected by its presence. This is\
        why it is set to a very low priority by default. See the previous\
        answer, "this version seems slower" for details on changing priority.\
         \
    Q: The client seems to slow down my application XYZ. What can I do?\
    A: Open the configuration menu (
\f3\fs20 ./dnetc -config
\f2\fs24 ) and go to\
        General Client Options. Select "Pause if running." Type in\
        the name of your application (e.g. XYZ) and then exit the\
        client. This will cause the client to pause if it detects that\
        application is running. Make sure you don't leave it open\
        all the time, or dnetc will never run :)\
    \
    Q: I want to run the client as a screen saver. How do I do this?\
    A: At this time, there is no screen saver module for the client under\
        Mac OS X, however this should not be difficult to implement. If\
        you get around to it before we do, let us know. :)\
\
    Q: Can I share my client's buffers with other (non-macos) clients?\
       ["sharing" is simultaneous access via file-sharing, but also \
       manual transfer of the buffer files from one machine to another]\
    A: In general, this is not recommended. However, you can use the\
        
\f3\fs20 -import
\f2\fs24  switch to accomplish this task. See the 
\f3\fs20 -help
\f2\fs24  for more info.\
         If you need to share buffers between many clients, you may wish\
         to consider setting up a personal proxy. For more info on perproxies,\
         visit: \cf5 http://www.distributed.net/download/proxies.html\cf0 \
\
    Q: How do I completely remove the client from my system?\
    A: Quit any running instances of the client, and then simply delete\
        the folder containing the client.\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28  4.0  Problems and bugs -----------------------------------------
\f2\b0\fs24 \
 \
    If you suspect you have found a bug in the client, here are the steps\
    you should take to help us diagnose and fix the problem.\
\
        1. Visit the client download page and verify that you have the latest\
             release of the client for Mac OS X.\
             \cf5 http://www.distributed.net/download/clients.html\cf0 \
\
        2. See if you can reproduce the problem. How does the bug occur?\
             What happens when it does? If it is a crash, try enabling Crash\
             Reporter. You can do this by starting the Mac OS X Console, which\
             is located in /Applications/Utilities/Console.app. Open it and go\
             to Preferences, and select the Crashes tab. Check both boxes.\
             If you receive a crash log, save it, as this may be useful info.\
\
        3. Visit distributed.net's Bugzilla system, our bug reporting and\
             tracking site. Here, you can report your bug and stay in contact\
             with distributed.net QA and developers as we try to fix your bug.\
             \cf5 http://www.distributed.net/bugs/\cf0 \
\
        4. When reporting a bug, please give us as many details as possible.\
                - What version of Mac OS X are you running?\
                      
\f1\i\fs20 (e.g. Mac OS X 10.1.3, build 5Q45)
\f2\i0\fs24 \
                - What is the full version descriptor of the client you are running?\
                      
\f1\i\fs20 (e.g. dnetc v2.8016-470-CTR-01102322 for Mac OS X (Darwin 5.3))
\f2\i0\fs24 \
                - What sort of Mac are you running this on?\
                      
\f1\i\fs20 (e.g. Power Mac G4/733 (Gigabit Ethernet), Titanium PowerBook 550, etc)
\f2\i0\fs24 \
\
        The more details you can give us, the easier it will be for us to fix\
        your bug. Thank you for helping us improve the client!\
\
\

\f0\b\fs28  5.0  Credits and thanks ---------------------------------------------
\f2\b0\fs24 \
 \
    Thanks to everybody involved in the development of the client for\
    Mac OS X and the beta testing process, who have helped make it what\
    it is, including (in no particular order):\
\
    - Dan Oetting (Fantastic optimizations and other valuable input)\
    - Chris Cox (OGR optimizations and great help during WWDC 2K)\
    - Nate "sampo" Begeman (OGR optimizations, XML drafts, bug fixes)\
    - Cyrus Patel (Lead developer at dnet and an awesome helper)\
    - Don Bruder (Contributor of code snippets and a logfile grapher)\
    - Michael Nahrath (Maintainer of JavaVis and ever-encouraging)\
    - Evan Vetere (Dearly missed "end-user relations" guy)\
    - Matt "Zebe" Lee (docs, bug fixes, and Bugzilla management)\
    - Andrew Meggs and Peter DiCamillo (ported previous clients)\
    - Matthias Neeracher (Author of GUSI2 which is used in dnetc)\
    - All members of the dmac beta list hosted by Joseph McLean\
    - Everybody who provides feedback through Bugzilla\
\
    And finally, thanks to everyone who runs dnetc on their computers.\
    Without you there wouldn't be much of a point in doing the client,\
    so keep on cracking! Maybe YOU can find the key using this client.\
\
\
}